---
status: note
task-id: lot:033iYKiL4L7zdYC82m3XG8
update-id: lot:033iYKiL4L7zdYC92V9Tkg
note-at: 2026-07-02T14:57:35.868577+00:00
---
# Plan work

1.  You are to look at the planned work on Wavelet for:

    1.  Inconsistencies.
    2.  Contradictions.
    3.  Duplicated work.
    4.  Work that would be undone or made unnecessary by other work.

2.  Then I'd like you to reorganise, re-order, and re-plan the work.

    1.  Tasks should be organised into a hierarchy. A the top level should be
        high level goals, and the leaves should be more specific tasks.
    2.  Each thing should be numbered (like 1., 1.1, 1.2, 2., 2.1 etc) showing
        their order.
    3.  Split up goals so that they're sequential eg: If 2.1 needs to be done
        after 1.1 and before 1.2 then split 1. into 1. and 3.
    4.  Drop (or merge) duplicate work
    5.  Organise to avoid re-work.
    6.  Use updates in this thing to clarify ALL inconsistencies and
        contradictions.
        1.  But if you think there's a clear or reasonable choice go ahead with
            it rather than pause for my input. Still clarify it with me, I may
            ask you to change what you did. But it's better not to be a blocker.

3.  Be bold

    1.  This language is young. It has no users. It's still in a prototyping /
        early experimentation phase. Drastic changes can be made.
    2.  The goal is to have a very small core language that is very well aligned
        with the WASM Component Model. Niceties can be added in the standard
        library, which doesn't have to be small. But the core language should
        be.

## Work location

1.  `lot thing list` will give you a list of all notes, `lot thing get` will
    grab all of the content about that note. `lot` doesn't have great tools for
    moving and deleting yet so you may need to handle that yourself but LoT
    things are just folders and plain text files on disk in the vault, so that
    shouldn't be a problem.
2.  The vault is in `/Users/logaan/code/personal/rust/wavelet/.lot-vault`

## Scope

1.  No implementation. This is just about organising the plan.
2.  Feel free to read the docs and the implementation to better understand the
    language if you need to. Be wary of outdated documentation or comments that
    make claims that are no longer true.
    1.  If you read such things and later discover them to be untrue then delete
        them (do not correct them, just remove the untrue comments or docs).
3.  All of these changes should be part of one pr.
