---
status: note
task-id: lot:033i1kmtWX08Pj9GQWvMa6
update-id: lot:033i1kmtWX08Pj9I9si6ps
note-at: 2026-07-01T16:50:02.719591+00:00
---
# 1.2 Round trip all wit types (conformance suite)

1.  Use rust to create a wasm component that exercises each of the wit types and
    features discussed in
    <https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org/design/wit.html>.

    1.  It should be written without any knowledge of wavelet.

    2.  Use the bytecode alliance tools to confirm features are valid wit.

    3.  It acts as a generic test of support for the component model types and
        features.

        1.  It should be a symetrical test. Exercising each of these features
            both calling and being called.
        2.  It should be able to run the full test with itself both as caller
            and callee.
        3.  The idea being that other wasm component implementations will be
            swapped in for one or the other in order to assess whether they've
            implemented all of these types and are able to round trip them
            across component boundaries.

    4.  It should require that the implementation under test can take a value,
        transform it in some small way, and then return it.

            // rust file pseudocode
            def test-u8-round-trip() {
                response = imported-component.test-u8-round-trip(seed-u8)
                assert(response == seed-u8 + 1)
            }

        1.  Two sets of seed values should be hard coded in the implementation.
            Two wasm files should be produced, one with each set of seed values.
        2.  This is to avoid implementations hard coding responses.

2.  Write a wavelet file that calls and can be called by every function in the
    testing world.

3.  Test the wavelet file in both directions using both of the rust wasm files
    (each set of rust seed data).

    1.  Use this to compile a list of implementation shortcomings.

4.  Then implement those shortcomings and re-test until every one of those wasm
    component features can be round tripped both ways against both sets of seed
    data.
